README.md, before:

# LeapMailR - Professional Email Service Platform

![LeapMailR](static/leapmailr.png)

**Enterprise-grade email platform with SOC 2 compliance, built with Go and Next.js**

[![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Go-1.23+-00ADD8?style=flat&logo=go)](https://go.dev)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

**Get up and running in 2 minutes:**

```bash
# Clone and setup
git clone https://github.com/dhawalhost/leapmailr.git
cd leapmailr
chmod +x setup.sh && ./setup.sh

# Start the application
./start.sh
```

**Or using Make:**
```bash
make setup
make run
```

**Or using Docker:**
```bash
cd docker-compose
docker-compose up -d
```

📖 **[Read the Complete Setup Guide →](docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md)**  
⚡ **[Quick Reference →](QUICKSTART.md)**

---

## Overview

LeapMailR is a powerful, production-ready email service platform that enables developers and businesses to send transactional emails with ease. Built with Go for the backend and Next.js for the frontend, LeapMailR provides enterprise-grade features including multi-factor authentication, secrets management, disaster recovery, and comprehensive monitoring.

### What LeapMailR Does

**Email Delivery Made Simple**
- Send transactional emails through a REST API or web dashboard
- Support for multiple email providers (SMTP, SendGrid, Mailgun, Amazon SES)
- Automatic failover between providers for maximum reliability
- Bulk email sending with personalization

**Template Management**
- Create and manage HTML email templates with dynamic variables
- Version control for your templates
- Visual template editor with live preview
- Template testing before deployment

**Analytics & Monitoring**
- Real-time email delivery tracking with Prometheus metrics
- Detailed analytics on open rates, click rates, and delivery status
- Performance metrics and insights with Grafana dashboards
- Email history and structured logging (ELK/Loki compatible)

**Developer-Friendly**
- RESTful API with comprehensive documentation
- JWT-based authentication with MFA support
- API key management with rotation
- Rate limiting and advanced security features
- Webhook notifications for email events

**Modern Dashboard**
- Beautiful, responsive Next.js web interface
- Real-time statistics and charts
- Template editor with code and preview modes
- User and organization management
- Role-based access control

**Enterprise Security (SOC 2 Compliant)**
- Multi-factor authentication (TOTP-based)
- Secrets management with encryption (AES-256-GCM)
- Automated secret rotation
- HTTPS enforcement with security headers
- CSRF protection and secure cookies
- Comprehensive audit logging
- Disaster recovery with automated backups

## Key Features

### Core Features
✨ **Multi-Provider Support** - Integrate with SMTP, SendGrid, Mailgun, or Amazon SES  
🔒 **Secure Authentication** - JWT tokens with MFA and refresh mechanism  
📊 **Advanced Analytics** - Track delivery rates, opens, and clicks with Prometheus  
🎨 **Template System** - Dynamic templates with variable substitution  
⚡ **High Performance** - Built with Go for speed and efficiency  
🔄 **Automatic Failover** - Switch providers automatically if one fails  

### Security & Compliance (SOC 2)
🔐 **Multi-Factor Authentication** - TOTP with backup codes and QR generation  
🔑 **Secrets Management** - AES-256-GCM encryption with automated rotation  
🛡️ **Security Headers** - HSTS, CSP, X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options  
🍪 **Secure Cookies** - HttpOnly, Secure, SameSite with CSRF protection  
🚦 **Rate Limiting** - Multi-tier protection (Global, Auth, API endpoints)  
✅ **Input Validation** - XSS protection, sanitization, email attachment validation  

### Operations & Monitoring
📈 **Prometheus Metrics** - Real-time performance and business metrics  
📊 **Grafana Dashboards** - Pre-built visualizations for monitoring  
📝 **Structured Logging** - Zap with correlation IDs and dual output  
💾 **Disaster Recovery** - Automated backups with 2-hour RTO target  
🔄 **Secret Rotation** - Automated rotation with configurable policies  
🚨 **AlertManager** - Proactive alerting for security and operational events  
📧 **Bulk Sending** - Send thousands of personalized emails  
🎯 **Rate Limiting** - Protect your infrastructure  
📱 **Responsive Dashboard** - Works on desktop and mobile  
🔐 **API Keys** - Secure programmatic access  

## Getting Started

### Quick Start with Docker

The fastest way to get LeapMailr running:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <your-repo>
cd leapmailr/docker-compose

# Run the setup script
# Windows:
docker-setup.bat

# Linux/Mac:
chmod +x docker-setup.sh
./docker-setup.sh

# Access the dashboard
# http://localhost:3000
```

See [docker-compose/DOCKER-QUICKSTART.md](docker-compose/DOCKER-QUICKSTART.md) for detailed instructions.

### Manual Installation

#### Prerequisites

- Go 1.22 or higher
- PostgreSQL 15+
- Node.js 18+ (for the dashboard)

#### Backend Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod download

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings

# Run migrations
go run main.go migrate

# Start the server
go run main.go
```

#### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd ../leapmailr-ui

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:8080/api/v1" > .env.local

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

## Configuration

LeapMailr is configured through environment variables. Key settings:

### Email Services

Email providers (SMTP, SendGrid, Mailgun, etc.) are now configured through the Email Service API endpoints after authentication. No environment variables are required for email configuration.

Use the `/api/v1/email-services` endpoints to:
- Create and manage email service configurations
- Set default email service for your account
- Test email service connectivity

### Database
```env
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USER=leapmailr
DB_PASSWORD=your-password
DB_NAME=leapmailr
```

### Security
```env
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key-minimum-32-characters
JWT_EXPIRY=24h
REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRY=168h
```

## Using LeapMailr

### Web Dashboard

1. **Create an Account**
   - Visit http://localhost:3000
   - Click "Get Started" and fill in your details
   - Login with your credentials

2. **Create Email Templates**
   - Navigate to Dashboard > Templates
   - Click "New Template"
   - Design your email with HTML and variables
   - Save and test

3. **Send Emails**
   - Go to Dashboard > Send Email
   - Select a template
   - Add recipients
   - Fill in template variables
   - Send immediately or schedule

4. **Monitor Performance**
   - Dashboard > Analytics
   - View delivery statistics
   - Track engagement metrics
   - Export data for analysis

### API Usage

**Authentication**
```bash
# Register
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "password": "securepassword",
    "first_name": "John",
    "last_name": "Doe"
  }'

# Login
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "password": "securepassword"
  }'
```

**Send Email**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/emails/send \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_id": "template-uuid",
    "to": "recipient@example.com",
    "subject": "Welcome to Our Platform",
    "parameters": {
      "name": "John Doe",
      "verification_link": "https://example.com/verify"
    }
  }'
```

**Bulk Send**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/emails/bulk \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_id": "template-uuid",
    "recipients": [
      {
        "email": "user1@example.com",
        "parameters": {"name": "User One"}
      },
      {
        "email": "user2@example.com",
        "parameters": {"name": "User Two"}
      }
    ]
  }'
```

## Contributing
We welcome contributions to LeapMailr! If you have an idea for improving the service, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Support
If you have any questions or issues with LeapMailr, please contact us at support.leapmailr@dhawalhost.com

## License
LeapMailr is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the MIT License.

## Built With
Golang - Golang is used to build LeapMailr

## Authors and Acknowledgment
LeapMailr was initial built by [Dhawal Dyavanpalli](https://github.com/dhawalhost). It is a free and open-source project.

## Versioning
This is still in development. We will be releasing new versions as we continue to improve the service.

## Disclaimer
LeapMailr is a tool for managing user inquiries from website 'Contact Us' forms. It is not responsible for the content of the inquiries or the actions taken by the recipients. Use of LeapMailr is at the user's own risk.

Commit message:

feat: Refactor Docker setup and CI/CD workflows
- Updated GitHub Actions workflows to deprecate old build and deploy processes.
- Removed golangci-lint workflow file and integrated linting into the CI pipeline.
- Simplified Docker commands in CI/CD setup documentation for backend and frontend.
- Updated Docker deployment documentation to reflect new image names and commands.
- Refactored README and setup guides to align with new Docker image structure.
- Introduced ArgoCD Image Updater configuration for automated deployments.
- Added Helm chart for generic app deployment with customizable workloads.
- Implemented semantic release strategy with conventional commits for versioning.
- Enhanced CI workflow to build and push Docker images with version tagging.

README.md, after:

# LeapMailR - Professional Email Service Platform

![LeapMailR](static/leapmailr.png)

**Enterprise-grade email platform with SOC 2 compliance, built with Go and Next.js**

[![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Go-1.23+-00ADD8?style=flat&logo=go)](https://go.dev)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

**Get up and running in 2 minutes:**

```bash
# Clone and setup
git clone https://github.com/dhawalhost/leapmailr.git
cd leapmailr
chmod +x setup.sh && ./setup.sh

# Start the application
./start.sh
```

**Or using Make:**
```bash
make setup
make run
```

**Or using Docker:**
```bash
cd docker-compose
docker-compose up -d
```

📖 **[Read the Complete Setup Guide →](docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md)**  
⚡ **[Quick Reference →](QUICKSTART.md)**

---

## 🚢 Releases (Conventional Commits)

This repo uses **Conventional Commits** to automatically generate semver tags.

**How it works**
- Merges to `main` run `.github/workflows/release.yml` (**Release (Conventional Commits)**).
- It creates a git tag like `v0.2.3`, updates `CHANGELOG.md`, and creates a GitHub Release.
- Tag pushes (`v*`) trigger `.github/workflows/ci.yml` to build/push Docker images to GHCR.
- ArgoCD Image Updater tracks the highest semver tag and updates Helm values accordingly.

**Required secret (recommended)**
- Add a repo secret named `RELEASE_TOKEN` (a GitHub PAT). This ensures the tag pushed by the release workflow can trigger the image-build workflow.

**Version bump rules**
- `fix: ...` → patch
- `feat: ...` → minor
- `feat!: ...` or a commit body containing `BREAKING CHANGE:` → major

## Overview

LeapMailR is a powerful, production-ready email service platform that enables developers and businesses to send transactional emails with ease. Built with Go for the backend and Next.js for the frontend, LeapMailR provides enterprise-grade features including multi-factor authentication, secrets management, disaster recovery, and comprehensive monitoring.

### What LeapMailR Does

**Email Delivery Made Simple**
- Send transactional emails through a REST API or web dashboard
- Support for multiple email providers (SMTP, SendGrid, Mailgun, Amazon SES)
- Automatic failover between providers for maximum reliability
- Bulk email sending with personalization

**Template Management**
- Create and manage HTML email templates with dynamic variables
- Version control for your templates
- Visual template editor with live preview
- Template testing before deployment

**Analytics & Monitoring**
- Real-time email delivery tracking with Prometheus metrics
- Detailed analytics on open rates, click rates, and delivery status
- Performance metrics and insights with Grafana dashboards
- Email history and structured logging (ELK/Loki compatible)

**Developer-Friendly**
- RESTful API with comprehensive documentation
- JWT-based authentication with MFA support
- API key management with rotation
- Rate limiting and advanced security features
- Webhook notifications for email events

**Modern Dashboard**
- Beautiful, responsive Next.js web interface
- Real-time statistics and charts
- Template editor with code and preview modes
- User and organization management
- Role-based access control

**Enterprise Security (SOC 2 Compliant)**
- Multi-factor authentication (TOTP-based)
- Secrets management with encryption (AES-256-GCM)
- Automated secret rotation
- HTTPS enforcement with security headers
- CSRF protection and secure cookies
- Comprehensive audit logging
- Disaster recovery with automated backups

## Key Features

### Core Features
✨ **Multi-Provider Support** - Integrate with SMTP, SendGrid, Mailgun, or Amazon SES  
🔒 **Secure Authentication** - JWT tokens with MFA and refresh mechanism  
📊 **Advanced Analytics** - Track delivery rates, opens, and clicks with Prometheus  
🎨 **Template System** - Dynamic templates with variable substitution  
⚡ **High Performance** - Built with Go for speed and efficiency  
🔄 **Automatic Failover** - Switch providers automatically if one fails  

### Security & Compliance (SOC 2)
🔐 **Multi-Factor Authentication** - TOTP with backup codes and QR generation  
🔑 **Secrets Management** - AES-256-GCM encryption with automated rotation  
🛡️ **Security Headers** - HSTS, CSP, X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options  
🍪 **Secure Cookies** - HttpOnly, Secure, SameSite with CSRF protection  
🚦 **Rate Limiting** - Multi-tier protection (Global, Auth, API endpoints)  
✅ **Input Validation** - XSS protection, sanitization, email attachment validation  

### Operations & Monitoring
📈 **Prometheus Metrics** - Real-time performance and business metrics  
📊 **Grafana Dashboards** - Pre-built visualizations for monitoring  
📝 **Structured Logging** - Zap with correlation IDs and dual output  
💾 **Disaster Recovery** - Automated backups with 2-hour RTO target  
🔄 **Secret Rotation** - Automated rotation with configurable policies  
🚨 **AlertManager** - Proactive alerting for security and operational events  
📧 **Bulk Sending** - Send thousands of personalized emails  
🎯 **Rate Limiting** - Protect your infrastructure  
📱 **Responsive Dashboard** - Works on desktop and mobile  
🔐 **API Keys** - Secure programmatic access  

## Getting Started

### Quick Start with Docker

The fastest way to get LeapMailr running:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <your-repo>
cd leapmailr/docker-compose

# Run the setup script
# Windows:
docker-setup.bat

# Linux/Mac:
chmod +x docker-setup.sh
./docker-setup.sh

# Access the dashboard
# http://localhost:3000
```

See [docker-compose/DOCKER-QUICKSTART.md](docker-compose/DOCKER-QUICKSTART.md) for detailed instructions.

### Manual Installation

#### Prerequisites

- Go 1.22 or higher
- PostgreSQL 15+
- Node.js 18+ (for the dashboard)

#### Backend Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod download

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings

# Run migrations
go run main.go migrate

# Start the server
go run main.go
```

#### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd ../leapmailr-ui

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:8080/api/v1" > .env.local

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

## Configuration

LeapMailr is configured through environment variables. Key settings:

### Email Services

Email providers (SMTP, SendGrid, Mailgun, etc.) are now configured through the Email Service API endpoints after authentication. No environment variables are required for email configuration.

Use the `/api/v1/email-services` endpoints to:
- Create and manage email service configurations
- Set default email service for your account
- Test email service connectivity

### Database
```env
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USER=leapmailr
DB_PASSWORD=your-password
DB_NAME=leapmailr
```

### Security
```env
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key-minimum-32-characters
JWT_EXPIRY=24h
REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRY=168h
```

## Using LeapMailr

### Web Dashboard

1. **Create an Account**
   - Visit http://localhost:3000
   - Click "Get Started" and fill in your details
   - Login with your credentials

2. **Create Email Templates**
   - Navigate to Dashboard > Templates
   - Click "New Template"
   - Design your email with HTML and variables
   - Save and test

3. **Send Emails**
   - Go to Dashboard > Send Email
   - Select a template
   - Add recipients
   - Fill in template variables
   - Send immediately or schedule

4. **Monitor Performance**
   - Dashboard > Analytics
   - View delivery statistics
   - Track engagement metrics
   - Export data for analysis

### API Usage

**Authentication**
```bash
# Register
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "password": "securepassword",
    "first_name": "John",
    "last_name": "Doe"
  }'

# Login
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "user@example.com",
    "password": "securepassword"
  }'
```

**Send Email**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/emails/send \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_id": "template-uuid",
    "to": "recipient@example.com",
    "subject": "Welcome to Our Platform",
    "parameters": {
      "name": "John Doe",
      "verification_link": "https://example.com/verify"
    }
  }'
```

**Bulk Send**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/emails/bulk \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_id": "template-uuid",
    "recipients": [
      {
        "email": "user1@example.com",
        "parameters": {"name": "User One"}
      },
      {
        "email": "user2@example.com",
        "parameters": {"name": "User Two"}
      }
    ]
  }'
```

## Contributing
We welcome contributions to LeapMailr! If you have an idea for improving the service, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Support
If you have any questions or issues with LeapMailr, please contact us at support.leapmailr@dhawalhost.com

## License
LeapMailr is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the MIT License.

## Built With
Golang - Golang is used to build LeapMailr

## Authors and Acknowledgment
LeapMailr was initial built by [Dhawal Dyavanpalli](https://github.com/dhawalhost). It is a free and open-source project.

## Versioning
This is still in development. We will be releasing new versions as we continue to improve the service.

## Disclaimer
LeapMailr is a tool for managing user inquiries from website 'Contact Us' forms. It is not responsible for the content of the inquiries or the actions taken by the recipients. Use of LeapMailr is at the user's own risk.
